## 对metagenomics的数据库进行一个大致的介绍


[UniRef](http://www.uniprot.org/help/uniref) Last modified May 12, 2015

>
The UniProt Reference Clusters (UniRef) provide clustered sets of sequences from the UniProt Knowledgebase (including isoforms) and selected UniParc records in order to obtain complete coverage of the sequence space at several resolutions while hiding redundant sequences (but not their descriptions) from view. 

主要是将来源于UniProt Knowledges 包含有 isoforms 和 有选择行的UniParc记录(去冗余的过程后，有些冗余序列会被去掉，这个纪录就是未来能保留被去掉的序列的信息)

UniParc是？

>

Unlike in UniParc, sequence fragments are merged in UniRef: The UniRef100 database combines identical sequences and sub-fragments with **11 or more residues from any organism into a single UniRef entry**, displaying the sequence of a representative protein, the accession numbers of all the merged entries and links to the corresponding UniProtKB and UniParc records.

不同的数字表明不同的标准。序列合并，记录保留，类似于NR库的表头

>
UniRef90 is built by clustering UniRef100 sequences with **11 or more residues using the CD-HIT algorithm** (Li W. and Godzik A., Bioinformatics, 22: 1658-1659, 2006) such that each cluster is composed of sequences that have at least **90% sequence identity to and 80% overlap with the longest sequence** (a.k.a. seed sequence) of the cluster. 

UniRef90是基于UniRef100 使用喜闻乐见的CD-HIT进行聚类， 90是指90%的相似性并且要80% overlap最长的序列。seed序列应该是cluster的最长序列。

>
Similarly, UniRef50 is built by clustering UniRef90 seed sequences that have at least 50% sequence identity to and 80% overlap with the longest sequence in the cluster. *Prior to 2013 there was no overlap threshold, so clusters were more heterogeneous in length. UniRef90 and UniRef50 yield a database size reduction of approximately 58% and 79%, respectively, providing for significantly faster sequence similarity searches.* The seed sequences are the longest members of the cluster. However, the longest sequence is not always the most informative. There is often more biologically relevant information (name, function, cross-references) available on other cluster members. 

注意 UniRef50是基于UniRef90的 **seed 序列**  50%以上的序列，80%的overlap,斜体字不懂

>
All the proteins in a cluster are therefore ranked as follows to facilitate the selection of a biologically relevant representative for the cluster:
**quality of the entry:** manually reviewed entries (from the UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot section) are preferred
**annotation score:** entries that have higher UniProtKB annotation scores are preferred
**organism:** entries from reference proteomes and model organisms are preferred
**length of the sequence:** longest sequence is preferred

在cluster的protein分类情况。


UniRef100 contains all UniProt Knowledgebase records plus selected UniParc records (see below). In UniRef100, all identical sequences and subfragments with 11 or more residues are placed into a single record. UniRef50 and UniRef90 are built based on UniRef100.

The UniRef100 identifier is generated by placing a "UniRef100_" prefix before the UniProtKB accession or UniParc identifier of the representative UniProtKB or UniParc entry, e.g. **“UniRef100_P99999”** or **“UniRef100_UPI0000027233”.**

In addition to UniProtKB records, UniRef100 also includes the UniParc entries that are not covered by UniProtKB and contains cross-references to the RefSeq and PDB databases.




